---
layout: post
title: Bored at the Secretary of State
---

Today I had to get my driver's license renewed, big 21st.
Oh great, the line is over 50 long.
Time to wait. And wait. And wait.
Hmm that's interesting *peers up at screen*

A realtime queue is displayed on the TVs above. 
Some people have signed in using their phone numbers, the last four digits of which are used to track your case.
About 10 of the 50 had actual ticket codes (letter-number-number-number).
Therefore about 40 have used their phone numbers instead.

*The speaker blurts out*
"NUMBER EIGHT FOUR THREE SEVEN PLEASE COME TO WINDOW NINE"

Hmm why wouldn't they just display the entire number?
Oh duh right, prank calls. A perfect thing to do while bored in this line.
Four digits doesn't seem like enough, what if I had the same number as someone else?
How would we know who was being called?

They must have thought about this possibility, right? 
Even if it is rare, the sheer volume of people entering SOS offices across the state means that two poor saps somewhere had to go up and ask.
Well, I guess that wouldn't be so bad. But still, could it happen?

*Begins scribbling*

Well, what's the probability that two dice rolls will turn up the same number

*scribbles six, six, thirty six, one out of six*

That wasn't so bad now what if there were 40 dice... with... 10,000 sides.
Yikes.

*Scribble scribble... runs out of page*

I'm not a statistician.
Eh, I could probably figure it out with some more research, but I am lazy and my time is valuable to me. So I'll let my computer do the thinking.


###Let's Run an Experiment

So I am slow, but my computer is fast.
The problem is simple to understand, but the math is not.
This sounds like a perfect problem to apply the Monte Carlo method.

Wouldn't it be great if, instead of calculating out dice rolls and probabilities, you could just roll the dice 100,000 times?
That's what a computer is for.

To begin, We'll start by defining what a dice roll is like in code.

```python
import random

print(random.randint(1,6)
```

That's pretty self-explanatory. randint pseudorandomly chooses a number from 1 to 6, with each having an equal probability.

